syllabus.md, before:

# [ICS 311](https://ics311.github.io/) Syllabus

## Textbook

Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and Clifford Stein (CLRS), [Introduction to Algorithms, Fourth Edition,](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262046305/) The MIT Press, 2022. ([Third Edition](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262533058/) is also fine --- the topics notes and videos are based on this edition.)

## Notes
                                                                                                                                 
Professor Dan Suthers has written excellent [notes](https://ics311.github.io/Notes/) for this course. These serve as concise summaries of the topics covered each week --- watch the videos or read the book for more detail.
                                                                                                                                 
## Video lectures

Lectures are available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/UHMICSAlgorithms/videos) and Laulima. The YouTube versions are linked from the individual Notes pages (the pages named Topic-XX.html on the www2 web site above), and can also be found in the Resources/Screencasts folder in Laulima. 

## MIT Video Lectures
                                                                                                                                 
Online lectures are also available from the textbook authors. These chalk-on-whiteboard lectures were recorded in an MIT classroom in 2005. Two versions are available:

[Videolectures.net](http://videolectures.net/mit6046jf05_introduction_algorithms/) or this [link](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005/video_galleries/video-lectures/)

<!--
[MIT Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005/video-lectures/)
-->
                                                                                                                                 
<!--                                                                                                                                 
## 
The course is distributed across multiple online tools and media. ICS students should be comfortable coordinating their use.

All **office hours** will also be held in a single shared Zoom "recurring meet anytime" room, to be sent to students.

We use [**Laulima**](https://laulima.hawaii.edu/portal) for quizzes, posting and submitting assignments, and providing resources such as other readings and podcasts (if you want to download or don't want to use YouTube). Please see [this document on everything Laulima users should know](http://www.hawaii.edu/talent/laulima_tab/tabs/laulima_essentials.html).

We will use [**Google Docs**](https://docs.google.com/) for in-class problem solving, as it supports simultaneous editing. Please ensure that you are familiar with Google Docs, and that you can access them via your UH login. While multiple browers are supported, Chrome likely provides the best experience for this part as it is also made by Google.
-->
                                                                                                                                 
## Instructor

#### [Peter Sadowski](http://www2.hawaii.edu/~psadow/)

*   Email: psadow at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*   Office: POST 306C
*   Office Hours: Mondays 4:40pm after Section 2 and on [zoom](https://hawaii.zoom.us/j/94574630916) (see email for password).

## Teaching Assistants

#### Kai-Ying "Kevin" Lin

*   Email: kylin at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*   Office: POST 314-9
*   Office Hours: Tuesday 12-1pm (select dates)  

#### Akib Sadmanee
*  Email: sadmanee at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*  Office: POST 305A
*  Office Hours: Tuesday 12-1pm (select dates)

## Communications

_Questions about Course Content_

In general, questions should be posted to discord (link in Laulima announcements). This is because (1) other students can see our responses there, and thus also benefit; and (2) other students may notice the question and answer before the instructor or TA notices it.

_Personal Topics_

For topics that are not of interest to other students or are personal, you may email the TAs or professor as appropriate, or request a private office visit. If using email, put "ICS 311" in the subject line.

_Communication with other students (e.g., group members)_

If you don't have and prefer another way to contact them, you can send email to other students in the course using the Laulima "Mailtool".</dd>


## Description

ICS 311 Algorithms (4 credits) Design and correctness of algorithms, including divide-and-conquer, greedy and dynamic programming methods. Complexity analyses using recurrence relations, probabilistic methods, and NP-completeness. Applications to order statistics, disjoint sets, B-trees and balanced trees, graphs, network flows, and string matching. Pre: 211 and 241.
                              
## Student Learning Outcomes

Students will develop an ability to apply mathematical foundations, algorithmic principles, and computer science theory to the modeling and design of computer-based systems. Specifically, the desired outcomes are:

*   Students are aware of fundamental algorithms of computer science, and their associated data structures and problem solving techniques.
*   Students can compose a problem formulation of a real-world problem mathematically.
*   Students can decide whether given pseudocode is correct for a given problem formulation; construct a counterexample if the given pseudocode is incorrect; and outline a proof for its correctness otherwise.
*   Students can design a correct algorithm for a given problem and describe the algorithm as pseudocode in a given pseudocode syntax.
*   Students can analyze the worst-case and best-case space and time complexities of a given algorithm.

## Grading

* 15% Quizzes (every lecture)
* 15% In-class exercises (every lecture)
* 35% Homework (10 problem sets)
* 10% Midterm 1
* 10% Midterm 2
* 15% Final

## Daily Class Structure
Each class day, there will be a daily quiz and an inclass group assignment on a particular topic. You are expected to come to class having studied the topic via the text, notes, and video lectures.

* **Daily Quiz:** Do this before class on Laulima. Quiz will be open at 8pm the night before and due 1pm. Answers will be discussed at the beginning of class.

* **Inclass Group Assignment:** Submit this to Laulima by 5pm. Make sure to include the name of your group members on your doc. Each person should submit, but your group should submit the same document.

## Homework Policy

Discussion of homework problems is strongly encouraged. However, students must write their solutions in their own words. Sharing of written solutions is expressly prohibited. Violations will be reported to the Office of Student Conduct and result in zero credit.

Homework assignments will be due at 11:55pm on the due date, but will be accepted until 8am the next morning without penalty.

## Late Work

If you will miss class, you can submit the quiz and inclass assignment to Laulima the same day before the deadline.

Homework Assignments wil not be accepted late, but the lowest grade will be dropped. 

## Sections

There are two sections of ICS 311 this year. Due to FERPA regulations, we are required to inform you that this course space is being shared by students in both ICS 311 sections [CRNs 70848 and 76470] and if you do not wish to be in a shared course space, please drop this section and register for another section or alternate course.

Commit message:

Update homework policy to include caveat when turning in homework assignments. *It does not explicitly say that turning in after 11:55 pm is possible (which it is) however if you turn it in early, you will not be able to edit your work past 11:55 pm.

syllabus.md, after:

# [ICS 311](https://ics311.github.io/) Syllabus

## Textbook

Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and Clifford Stein (CLRS), [Introduction to Algorithms, Fourth Edition,](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262046305/) The MIT Press, 2022. ([Third Edition](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262533058/) is also fine --- the topics notes and videos are based on this edition.)

## Notes
                                                                                                                                 
Professor Dan Suthers has written excellent [notes](https://ics311.github.io/Notes/) for this course. These serve as concise summaries of the topics covered each week --- watch the videos or read the book for more detail.
                                                                                                                                 
## Video lectures

Lectures are available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/UHMICSAlgorithms/videos) and Laulima. The YouTube versions are linked from the individual Notes pages (the pages named Topic-XX.html on the www2 web site above), and can also be found in the Resources/Screencasts folder in Laulima. 

## MIT Video Lectures
                                                                                                                                 
Online lectures are also available from the textbook authors. These chalk-on-whiteboard lectures were recorded in an MIT classroom in 2005. Two versions are available:

[Videolectures.net](http://videolectures.net/mit6046jf05_introduction_algorithms/) or this [link](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005/video_galleries/video-lectures/)

<!--
[MIT Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005/video-lectures/)
-->
                                                                                                                                 
<!--                                                                                                                                 
## 
The course is distributed across multiple online tools and media. ICS students should be comfortable coordinating their use.

All **office hours** will also be held in a single shared Zoom "recurring meet anytime" room, to be sent to students.

We use [**Laulima**](https://laulima.hawaii.edu/portal) for quizzes, posting and submitting assignments, and providing resources such as other readings and podcasts (if you want to download or don't want to use YouTube). Please see [this document on everything Laulima users should know](http://www.hawaii.edu/talent/laulima_tab/tabs/laulima_essentials.html).

We will use [**Google Docs**](https://docs.google.com/) for in-class problem solving, as it supports simultaneous editing. Please ensure that you are familiar with Google Docs, and that you can access them via your UH login. While multiple browers are supported, Chrome likely provides the best experience for this part as it is also made by Google.
-->
                                                                                                                                 
## Instructor

#### [Peter Sadowski](http://www2.hawaii.edu/~psadow/)

*   Email: psadow at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*   Office: POST 306C
*   Office Hours: Mondays 4:40pm after Section 2 and on [zoom](https://hawaii.zoom.us/j/94574630916) (see email for password).

## Teaching Assistants

#### Kai-Ying "Kevin" Lin

*   Email: kylin at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*   Office: POST 314-9
*   Office Hours: Tuesday 12-1pm (select dates)  

#### Akib Sadmanee
*  Email: sadmanee at hawaii (Put "ICS 311" in the subject line.)
*  Office: POST 305A
*  Office Hours: Tuesday 12-1pm (select dates)

## Communications

_Questions about Course Content_

In general, questions should be posted to discord (link in Laulima announcements). This is because (1) other students can see our responses there, and thus also benefit; and (2) other students may notice the question and answer before the instructor or TA notices it.

_Personal Topics_

For topics that are not of interest to other students or are personal, you may email the TAs or professor as appropriate, or request a private office visit. If using email, put "ICS 311" in the subject line.

_Communication with other students (e.g., group members)_

If you don't have and prefer another way to contact them, you can send email to other students in the course using the Laulima "Mailtool".</dd>


## Description

ICS 311 Algorithms (4 credits) Design and correctness of algorithms, including divide-and-conquer, greedy and dynamic programming methods. Complexity analyses using recurrence relations, probabilistic methods, and NP-completeness. Applications to order statistics, disjoint sets, B-trees and balanced trees, graphs, network flows, and string matching. Pre: 211 and 241.
                              
## Student Learning Outcomes

Students will develop an ability to apply mathematical foundations, algorithmic principles, and computer science theory to the modeling and design of computer-based systems. Specifically, the desired outcomes are:

*   Students are aware of fundamental algorithms of computer science, and their associated data structures and problem solving techniques.
*   Students can compose a problem formulation of a real-world problem mathematically.
*   Students can decide whether given pseudocode is correct for a given problem formulation; construct a counterexample if the given pseudocode is incorrect; and outline a proof for its correctness otherwise.
*   Students can design a correct algorithm for a given problem and describe the algorithm as pseudocode in a given pseudocode syntax.
*   Students can analyze the worst-case and best-case space and time complexities of a given algorithm.

## Grading

* 15% Quizzes (every lecture)
* 15% In-class exercises (every lecture)
* 35% Homework (10 problem sets)
* 10% Midterm 1
* 10% Midterm 2
* 15% Final

## Daily Class Structure
Each class day, there will be a daily quiz and an inclass group assignment on a particular topic. You are expected to come to class having studied the topic via the text, notes, and video lectures.

* **Daily Quiz:** Do this before class on Laulima. Quiz will be open at 8pm the night before and due 1pm. Answers will be discussed at the beginning of class.

* **Inclass Group Assignment:** Submit this to Laulima by 5pm. Make sure to include the name of your group members on your doc. Each person should submit, but your group should submit the same document.

## Homework Policy

Discussion of homework problems is strongly encouraged. However, students must write their solutions in their own words. Sharing of written solutions is expressly prohibited. Violations will be reported to the Office of Student Conduct and result in zero credit.

Homework assignments will be due at 11:55pm on the due date, but can be submitted until 8am the next morning without penalty. *As a caveat, if you plan to turn in the assignment past 11:55pm, do not submit your work until you are finished as you will not be able to unsubmit and edit your work. 

## Late Work

If you will miss class, you can submit the quiz and inclass assignment to Laulima the same day before the deadline.

Homework Assignments wil not be accepted late, but the lowest grade will be dropped. 

## Sections

There are two sections of ICS 311 this year. Due to FERPA regulations, we are required to inform you that this course space is being shared by students in both ICS 311 sections [CRNs 70848 and 76470] and if you do not wish to be in a shared course space, please drop this section and register for another section or alternate course.
